Hey, guys.
Welcome to lecture 19.
This will be Selecting Entries.
All right, so as always, import the usual.
Import pandas as pd.
And then from pandas
import Series,DataFrame.
All right, awesome.
So let's just create a series.
We'll call it ser1.
And let's go ahead and
again use the np.arange method.
We'll just have it be three points.
And we'll set the index,
as usual, for three points,
just 'A','B','C'.
Awesome.
And what I'm gonna do
here is I'm gonna set
ser1 equal to every value
doubled in series one.
And I'm going to do that to avoid
some confusion in the future, and
you'll see what I mean later.
So we created a series.
Originally it would have just been 0,
1, 2, but
we doubled every value in it with some
multiplication, so now it's 0, 2, 4.
And that created our series or
ser1, that series.
So let's learn how we
can select some data.
So if we can grab entries by
the index name on a series.
So if we call that series we
can just grab it by the index.
So for instance,
if I wanted the 2 value, its index is B,
so if I call that, I'll grab that 2.
Or I can just grab it by its numerical
value, of the index, that is.
So the index will always have
a numerical value starting at 0 so,
A is 0, B is 1, C is 2.
This is why I multiplied the values
by two to avoid any confusion, so
if I said ser1 and
called the 1 index on it,
that will be the same as the B index,
and I'll get the 2 value out.
We can also grab it by a range.
So I can call from
0 to 3 and that will give me all of them.
Awesome.
So that's the 0, 1, 2.
3 was not inclusive there.
And we can also grab it by
a range of index values as well.
So the actual index value names.
And I can do that by passing a list.
So let's say just one of
those first two values.
That'll get me the A and B value.
So instead of using the numerical
index values 0, 1, 2, I
can actually call them by their names.
We can also grab by logic.
And what I mean by that is just using some
Boolean logic or just basic equations.
So I'll show you an example.
So we have our series and
what do we want to grab from it?
We can say, go ahead and
grab everywhere that
the series is greater than 3.
And if I select that, it gives me C 4,
which was the only value
that was greater than 3.
And we can also set values
using this kind of method.
So we can say
Where ser1 is greater
than 3 let's go ahead and
set those values equal to 10, and
then let's show what it looks like.
And now it's replaced any values
that are greater than 3 to 10.
Awesome.
So now that we've seen how selecting
entries works in a series,
let's go ahead and
see how it works in a data frame.
So we'll start by making a data frame.
First thing we're gonna pass
are the actual entries, those values.
So we'll do it by just getting
an array of 25 entries.
Let's go ahead and
reshape this into a five
by five matrix.
What's next?
We gotta set up the index.
If we wanna have it actually labeled,
and we'll use cities again.
What else is there?
San Francisco.
Let's go with DC for Washington,
DC, and then maybe Chi for Chicago.
And then we can also have the columns
by passing the columns argument.
And I'm going to start a new line here.
Make sure you have this comma here
before you start the columns argument.
This comma.
And then we can go ahead and pass a list.
We'll need it to be five letters long.
So we'll just do A B C D E.
Perfect.
And then we'll just show that dframe,
that data frame.
Cool.
So we have our index labeled by cities and
our columns labeled by letters.
The data itself was just
an array from 0 to 24 that
we've reshaped into a five by five matrix.
So how do we select
data from a data frame?
Well, you can select it by column name.
So you can call the B column, and
that will grab you all the values in
that B column, so 1, 6, 11, 16, 21.
You can select multiple columns in this
same manner just by passing a list.
Notice how I'm using two
sets of brackets here.
So if you wanted B E, we call that and
then we get the B E columns.
And just like we did in the series,
we can use Boolean logic as well.
So we can say give me the data
frame values where C column
is greater than 8.
And if we pass that,
it's gonna give us this as a return.
So it's giving you every row as
the answer, where C was greater than 8.
If we look back at our original dframe.
The first two rows, C was less than 8.
The last three it was greater than 8.
So it gave us the last three
rows of the entire data frame.
You can also show a Boolean data frame.
And a Boolean data frame will just have
Boolean values, so true and false.
And I can do that just by asking hey,
where is dframe greater than 10?
And then it'll give me
a Boolean data frame, so
everywhere that's labeled false, you can
see the data frame was less than 10.
And everywhere that's true,
it was greater than 10.
Cool.
And as we previously discussed,
we can use ix to label index.
So to show you an example,
you can say dframe.ix.
And we can pass LA.
And it's going to give us those LA values.
So the LA row was 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
And it's given us 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and
the columns as the index values.
So another quick example.
We can also do this by asking for
the 1 row values.
So remember,
indexing starts at 0, so 0, 1.
So that should also be LA.
0 was NYC.
And if we check that out, what do we get?
We get the same thing as calling LA.
Cool.
So we'll be selecting entries
a lot during this course, so
you're going to be seeing this over and
over again.
And hopefully as we create more
data frames and create more series,
you're gonna feel really comfortable just
making data frames right off the bat
with numpy arrange and then creating
index lists and column lists.
All right, awesome.
So the next lecture,
we'll learn about data alignment.
I'll see you there.